# Detection_and_Prevention_of_Forest_Fire
## ~CopyRight:: Devina Sachin Dhuri, Sanved Tapkeer and Tejas Kapadia 

#### This Readme will take you through the process to install and run the code for th following:
1. To get the readings from the temperature sensors and stores the data in an Output file,
2. Simulation and Prediction on a console based application along with analysis,
3. Simulation, Prediction and Containment of fire spread in Unity3D. 

### When saved in file:
1. 15 is for DHT sensor 1
2. 16 is for DHT sensor 2
3. 21 is for DHT sensor 3
4. 22 is for analog sensor

### A] To run the code for the sensors follow the steps below:
1. Install Arduino IDE.
2. Install IDE Board - ESP8266.
3. Install the libraries for DHT.
4. Open the IDE code given under DHT Sensors folder. 
5. Compile the code and upload it to the Node-MCU.
6. Run the python file provided in terminal - specifically for ubuntu.

##### *** Note: If the port shows error for uploading in new terminal write, "sudo chmod a+rw /dev/ttyUSB0 ", then try uploading again.

### B] To run the console based simulation code follow the steps below:
1. Download and install Java 8 on a Windows/Mac machine
2. Download library JCIFs from https://www.jcifs.org/
3. Compile using - javac -c jcifs.jar Simulation.java 
4. Run using - java -c jcifs.jar Simulation 

### C] To run the Unity3D simulation code follow the steps below:
1. Download Unity3D gaming platform version 2019.1.4f1 (64 bit) from https://unity3d.com/de/get-unity/download/archive
2. Unzip the Wireless.zip folder, Open Untiy3d after installing and select the newly extracted Wireless folder. 
3. When opens, load the scene VilageDemo under "Wireless\Assets\FirePropagation\Scenes"
4. Click on "Flame Initiator" in the Hierarchy of the open scene, In the right Inspector menu, under Instantiation Example, select the type of prediction algorithm needed, 1: Boundary Based; 2: Lane Detection Algorithm. Then type in the path where the Output.txt is stored. This is the file generated by the code in step one. Example: C://Users//candi//Desktop//DHT sensor//for output//output.txt
5. Check the following:
	1. Under the same inspector menu as step 4, the field for "My Prefab" should be "Flames", if missing, drag and drop from: Project Tab> Assets->FirePropagation->Demo->Prefabs->Flames.
	2. Hierarchy - sensors, every sensor must have under Inspector menu->: 
		1. "Collision Color Change"-> Algo Obj should have "flame initiator", If missing drag it from the same hierarchy.
		2. "Collision Color Change"-> Sensor Main, each sensor must have it own reference, if missing drag the sensor from the hierarchy.
		3. "Collision Color Change"-> Waterpole should have "Particle System", if missing drag it from Project Tab> Assets-> Particle System
	3.  Hierarchy - Boundary -> Cube, every cube must have under Inspector menu-> "Lane Detection": 
		1. Algo Obj should have "flame initiator", If missing drag it from the same hierarchy.
		2.  Waterpole should have "Particle System", if missing drag it from Project Tab> Assets-> Particle System
		3. Line, each cube must have it own reference, if missing drag the Cube from the hierarchy.
	4. The flame Initiator object and Every Cube and sensor (Sensors denoted by S followed by number)(under Hierarchy) must have, Rigid body component and a box collider attached. if missing, in the inspector menu click on components and select them. For Rigid body, un-tick "use gravity" and for box collider tick "Is Trigger".
6. Once all this is set, hit the play button to see the simulation.

###### Thank You for your support!!